Narrator: When a night of fun
at the local tavern
ends in mystery.
She had left her cigarettes
and her keys on the bar.
She walked out the back door,
never returned.
Narrator: Rumors fly around
a quiet midwestern farm town.
Curt: Had overheard them say
they had killed someone
and cut them up.
Narrator: And sent police down
an unexpected and dark path.
They had abducted three women
that they held as sex slave
in a cave on the property.
Narrator: The truth
lies hidden for years,
until a horrifying discovery
buried in a rancher's backyard.
I found a ribcage.
Narrator: Reveals
a small town's deadly secret.
[siren wailing]
there's no way that this
could not be connected.
The killer
was still out on the loose.
[♪♪]
narrator:
The tiny farm town of ord
sits on the eastern edge
of the nebraska sandhills.
A vast stretch of rolling dunes
that meet the great plains.
Ord, nebraska
is dead center of the state.
Michael:
It is kind of a small town
in america's heartland.
It's a farming
and ranching community.
Very friendly.
The ranches around ord
are pretty large,
kind of gentle rolling hills,
fields of alfalfa,
or fields of popcorn.
Robert: That's safe.
There's not a lot of crime.
You can let you children
run around
and not have to worry
about them.
[♪♪]
narrator: On a beautiful
spring afternoon,
dee petska and her children
are out picking up
discarded bottles and cans
to recycle for pocket money.
And there are plenty
on party hill,
a popular hangout spot
for teens
hidden in a remote corner
of a rancher's backyard.
Party hill was--
was well known back then.
Kind of a known drinking spot
for underage teenagers.
Curt: As dee petska
and her children were out,
they walked, they found
something in the road.
Initially,
she thought it was a ball
or something that had
become deflated.
But when she looked
at it closer,
it looked like bone.
She made an x
where she had found it
and then called law enforcement.
They determined it was a piece
of a human skull.
[♪♪]
[siren wailing]
narrator: Police
are immediately dispatched
to the rancher's
secluded backyard.
It was by hand
and very, very meticulous.
It was comparable
to an archeological dig.
Larry: I started to walk
around a little bit
and I went up to, uh,
a little indentation
at the top of this pasture,
and I found a ribcage.
Narrator: As the work
stretches on for hours,
many of the searchers
have their suspicions
about who they found.
Curt: I think almost
universally thought
there's only been one person
disappeared here,
and now it's possibly her.
Narrator: Investigators send
the bones for dna testing,
hoping it will confirm
their suspicion
about the victim's identity.
We think we know who was buried
in the backyard.
[♪♪]
curt:
The someplace else tavern
is where people go for a meal,
a drink or two, socialize.
Robert: Bar is pretty busy
place back then,
and it's a bar, so of course
you have your scuffles here
once in a while.
Usually, everybody got along
with everybody.
[♪♪]
narrator:
The someplace else tavern
is like a second living room
for much of the tiny
community in ord.
On most nights,
that's where you'll find
sharlene whitefoot
and cathy beard.
Michael:
Sharlene was the bar manager
and cathy beard worked
as a part-time waitress
at the someplace else tavern.
Casey: Sharlene and cathy
were very good friends.
I think you would call them
best friends.
Robert: I've known cathy
for a long time.
I remember when my mom sharlene
bartending,
it seemed like cathy was always
sitting at the end of the bar.
Cathy has always had
a smile on her face.
Cathy was kind of social
and really enjoyed her friends.
Narrator:
On a warm spring evening,
cathy heads
to the someplace else tavern.
Michael: This happened
to be cathy's night off,
but she, you know,
went down to the bar
to see her friends.
She had talked to several
people in the bar
including sharlene whitefoot.
Michael:
This was a safe place to her.
She was very familiar
with the people there.
Narrator: But at closing time,
sharlene who has been
tending bar all night,
realizes that cathy is
suddenly nowhere to be found.
Sharlene noted that cathy
had left her cigarettes
and her keys and some
other items on the bar
which she felt was very unusual.
Michael: Cathy lived
with her mother veneta.
They were very close.
Narrator: But veneta
hasn't seen or heard from cathy
since she left earlier
that evening
to head for the bar.
Sharlene became worried
about cathy
and called
in the missing persons
from the bar that night.
Police don't really get involved
until a person has been missing
for more than 24 hours.
But because of the unusual
nature of cathy's disappearance,
police started looking
into the case right away.
When somebody leaves
their stuff unattended,
that is a kind of a sign
of maybe something went wrong.
Narrator:
When police interview people
who were in the bar that night,
several say they saw cathy
talking to a man
named john oldson,
a lifelong resident of ord.
Curt:
John oldson and cathy beard
did know each other.
I think cathy considered him
somewhat of a friend.
Larry: They were all sitting
at a table and john,
uh, got off from the table
and walked over
and started talking to cathy
who was standing at the jukebox.
They had some type
of a discussion
and at some point went out
the back door into the alley.
Narrator: When the detectives
visit john oldson
to ask him what happened
in the alley behind the bar,
he readily admits that
he was trying to hit on cathy.
John wanted to be with cathy.
Michael: He attempted to have
a relationship with her
but she refused.
Glenn: She said, uh,
I see you as a friend but,
you know, not--
not the way you're talking.
Narrator:
John tells the investigators
that while he and cathy
were talking,
a pickup truck
pulled into the alley.
Larry:
The passenger door opened up
and cathy entered the vehicle
and the door closed.
Narrator: John claims
he didn't recognize the man,
but he did catch part
of the truck's license plate
as it drove off.
He thought it had
88 county plates
and he couldn't get
the rest of the numbers.
An 88 county license
which would be loup county
and it would be about
31 miles from ord.
Narrator: John tells the police
cathy seemed to willingly
go off with the two men.
He said he felt
rebuffed and ashamed
so he got in his pickup
and drove home
and took a shower.
His dad said john
was in the shower
at the time he got home
and basically backed
john's story.
Narrator: John oldson
isn't the only one
who tells police he saw cathy
get into an unidentified
pickup truck behind the bar.
Curt: Jerome walkowiak
came forward,
he had seen the pickup
in the alley.
Jerome basically stated
that through the back door
window of the bar
he saw cathy beard
walk away from john
and get into this other
88 county pickup.
He basically corroborated
john's story.
Narrator: Investigators
now have two witnesses
who claimed to have seen cathy
getting into a pickup truck
behind the bar.
[♪♪]
larry:
Cathy, uh, left with someone
and, uh, did not return of--
of her own accord.
To find cathy,
we need to find the truck.
Curt: So the officers
were trying to see
if they could locate a pickup
that would match
the description.
Larry: We were asking anyone
that may have witnessed, uh,
anything to do with this
loup county vehicle
to come forward.
As time went by,
it was becoming fairly certain
that something serious
happened to cathy.
She could be in real trouble.
But it was quite urgent
to getting her located.
[♪♪]
he was pursuing
a sexual fantasy.
The man who was soliciting sex
could have killed her himself.
He was the last person
to see her alive.
Narrator: A day into the search
for cathy beard,
police in ord, nebraska
are looking for a pickup truck
that witnesses reported
seeing her get into
with two unidentified men.
[♪♪]
they did a search of
department motor vehicle records
for any and all
88 county pickups
that were licensed
that fit that description.
Larry: They were able to look
at all of the vehicles
ever registered
and could not find one
that matched the color
and description
that was provided
by both walkowiak and john.
Narrator: Police wonder
could john or jerome
have gotten the plate or color
of the pickup truck wrong.
Curt: Alcohol affects
the way you think.
John and jerome
would have had enough to drink
that they would have probably
not seen things
the same way
as of they were sober.
Narrator:
Since john was the last person
to see cathy that night,
the detectives go back to him
to see if his memory
has become any clearer.
But his story is unchanged.
To prove he's not hiding
anything from them,
he agrees to let the police
search his pickup truck.
Curt: Law enforcement collected
whatever samples
they could find.
Then everything came back
that there was no dna trace
that belonged to cathy.
[♪♪]
narrator: Crime is rare
in a tiny town like ord,
but as police search for cathy,
they find themselves
in the middle
of two big investigations.
[♪♪]
jay: On the same night,
cathy beard
becomes a missing person,
there was an armed robbery
at a motel.
There's no way that this
cannot be connected
because what's the chances
of an armed robbery
in ord, nebraska the same night,
um, a woman comes up missing.
Narrator: The robbery victim
is a businessman
visiting from colorado.
He tells police about two men
he met in a local bar.
[♪♪]
he was in town as a popcorn
seed salesman.
He said they started
drinking together
and he had a lot
of cash on him.
And he was offering $100 to $200
if they could find him
a woman that evening.
Narrator:
The traveling salesman
claims nothing came of it.
But that an hour
after he left them,
the two men showed up
at his motel room.
And they forced the door open
and had a shotgun
and robbed him of his money.
Narrator: From the
salesman's description,
police recognize the robbers
as two local men,
rex white and glen hall.
Glen hall and rex white
were known locally
for having been involved
in some other crimes
around the area.
Rex and glen who live locally
and were kind of
local troublemakers
and they kind of pieced together
who these--
these two culprits were.
Narrator: They don't match
the description
of the men in the alley,
but when they bring in the pair
for questioning,
detectives discover
a disturbing connection
between them and cathy
on the night she vanished.
[♪♪]
larry: Glen hall explained
that this salesman
was looking for a person
he could have sex with.
And they-- they left
the other bar in ord
and went
to someplace else tavern.
And they walked in
and they were asking
where cathy was.
And it popped into their head
that cathy beard
would be someone that
they would, uh, find for him.
Cathy beard had a reputation,
deserved or not.
Curt: There was a belief
amongst law officers
that glen hall and rex white
might have taken cathy
to the motel and the man
who was soliciting sex
was the one that killed her.
Narrator: Detectives
can't find any evidence
connecting the salesman
to cathy's disappearance.
And rex and glen claim they
never saw cathy that night.
But as the investigators
check out their alibi,
what they learn
sets off an alarm.
[♪♪]
curt: Mr. Hall and mr. White
worked for a construction crew
and their boss indicated
to the investigators
at one point that he had
overheard rex white say
they had killed someone
and cut them up.
And indicated that they may be
buried somewhere.
Larry: One of the concrete crew
reported to us
that there was a bag of lime
that was missing.
Narrator:
It's a disturbing discovery.
The detectives know lime
is often used by killers
to try to hide evidence
of their crime.
Lime is basically used
to keep the odor
and the decomposition
attraction for bugs
to a minimum.
The crew just
had had a hole dug.
They poured the concrete
the next day.
We had to search the jobsite
where they were pouring
a concrete pad.
Cathy beard may be buried
under a slab of concrete.
Larry: If her remains
were found there,
we might be able to figure out
what happened to cathy.
♪]
narrator: A week after
cathy beard vanishes
in ord, nebraska,
police are searching
in nearby construction site
where the foreman
has told them he overheard
an employee named rex white
brag about killing her.
Larry: He reported that
he had overheard rex white
talking about how they had
disposed of cathy beard
underneath this concrete slab.
Narrator: Rex
and his co-worker glen hall
are already suspects
in cathy's disappearance,
so the information
from their boss
is enough for officers
to obtain a search warrant
and begin breaking down
the concrete slab.
The sheriff's office
was able to completely remove
all that concrete, demolish it,
and search the area underneath.
There was no remains.
Narrator: It's a disappointment
but it doesn't remove suspicion
from rex white and glen hall.
We later found
that they had stolen a boat.
There was rumors of her
being thrown into the lake
and they dredged ericson lake.
But they didn't find anything.
That did not clear mr. Hall
and mr. White as suspects.
It was always in the back
of everybody's mind,
"hey, what happened to cathy?"
robert: I was 12 years old
when she disappeared.
And I just wanted her
to be found alive and okay.
Curt: After she disappeared,
cathy's mother
became more homebound.
She did think about it a lot.
She really needed to know
what happened to her daughter.
Michael:
The family was heartbroken.
No arrest had been made.
[♪♪]
narrator:
Detectives continue to watch
their potential suspects
rex white and glen hall
but can't find
any solid evidence
connecting them
to cathy's disappearance.
And there's no sign
of the pickup truck
witnesses reported
seeing cathy get into
behind the
someplace else tavern.
The mystery stretches
into its third
heart-wrenching year
and the case grows cold.
I would stop frequently
and visit
with cathy beard's mother.
And I told her I was not gonna
forget about her daughter.
Narrator: Then, a woman
walking with her children
makes a horrifying discovery
in a secluded corner
of a rancher's backyard.
Casey: Dee petska found
the skull on party hill
where kids would go out
in a desolate area and--
and have their beer parties.
Larry: It's located
about five miles from the bar
where cathy was last seen.
She called the police department
to report that.
Narrator:    Crime techs comb
the isolated backyard
collecting pieces
of the remains.
Curt: The body parts
had been somewhat scattered.
Larry: Based on the evidence,
damage to the skeletal,
uh, remains,
we knew that it was a homicide.
Casey:
The anthropologist determined
that it was a white
caucasian female in her 30s.
Narrator: And the more
evidence they find
buried in the backyard,
the more investigators
are convinced they know
the identity of the victim.
I started to brush the dirt away
and I found the sweater
that cathy beard
was reported wearing
when she disappeared.
There was a large hole in the
abdominal area of the sweater.
A blood sample was drawn
from cathy beard's mother's arm
so we could use, uh, the blood
for mitochondrial dna.
Narrator: Dna testing confirms
the family's worst fears.
The body found on party hill
is cathy beard.
[♪♪]
larry: It was an emotional,
tearful event.
They knew that it was her and--
and the search for cathy beard
was over.
Robert: My mom came home
and she was crying.
She told me that
they had found cathy.
I was saddened
that she wasn't still alive
but happy that maybe
they did find her,
now some questions
could be answered.
Jay: Cathy beard's death
was a homicide
and she suffered
both blunt force trauma
and sharp force trauma.
Michael:
The killer was still out.
Whoever was responsible for this
was still out on the loose.
Glenn: He was gonna have sex
with her that night regardless.
Casey: A lot of times
criminals will brag
when they're incarcerated
and say,
"oh, yeah, I did this
but I never got caught."
[♪♪]
narrator: Three years
after she vanished
from a bar in ord, nebraska,
cathy beard's remains
have been found
buried in a rancher's backyard
and a homicide investigation
is underway.
Michael: The ranch owners
cooperated fully
with law enforcement
in this investigation.
There was no connection
to cathy beard.
In ord, it's quite possible
that a body could be buried
in this backyard
for quite a long time
and nobody noticed it
because the land is so vast.
Narrator: Detectives quickly
turn their focus back
to the two men
who were strong early suspects,
glen hall and rex white.
Mr. Hall and mr. White
had actually been
to the someplace else tavern
looking for cathy beard.
Larry: People at the bar
overheard them questioning,
"where is cathy?"
and the next thing
that was reported
was cathy's disappearance.
Their employer had reported
that he had overheard
rex white talking
about how they had disposed
of cathy beard.
Narrator:
But the new investigation
can't turn up any evidence
connecting them
to cathy's murder.
Curt: Mr. Hall and mr. White
had taken a polygraph
and it turned out the polygraph
came up negative.
Larry: Basically,
we feel that rex white
is trying to sound tough
and intimidate people.
As far as being suspects,
they were discredited
and disproved.
Narrator: Investigators
were also unable
to find any new evidence
connecting cathy's murder
to the popcorn seed salesman
who claims that glen and rex
robbed him,
a crime for which    th.
Michael: In the end,
there was no connection
between the robbery
and cathy beard's disappearance.
Narrator: With their strongest
potential suspects ruled out,
the detectives go back to
the witnesses
who were in the bar
the night cathy vanished.
That includes john oldson,
the last person
to report seeing cathy.
They're stunned to discover
that john is in jail
awaiting arraignment
on sexual assault charges.
[♪♪]
larry: John had been arrested
for sexually assaulting a clerk
at a gas station in burwell.
Curt: When she left work,
john had grabbed her,
he had forced her
to the ground,
lifted her shirt,
rubbed her stomach,
and she had tried
to fight him off
and once she did that,
he turned and left.
Narrator:
The sexual assault charge
raises red flags.
But when detectives interview
john in jail
about what happened
the night cathy disappeared
three years ago,
his story doesn't change.
Jay: John oldson's version
of the events in the alley
was that
he approached cathy beard
for sexual relations,
she refused him.
She then went to a pickup
with two other guys
and left with them.
Jerome walkowiak,
the man at the bar
who also saw cathy
get into the, uh, truck,
corroborated what
john oldson's version was
of what happened in that alley.
Larry: We had no evidence to
dispute what he was telling us.
It was extremely frustrating
for not only myself,
but local law enforcement
in valley county,
and in ord, and, uh,
the family members
that this was ongoing
and unsolved.
Narrator: In 2004, five years
after cathy vanished,
her mother veneta passes away,
never knowing
who was responsible
for her daughter's murder.
She's laid to rest
next to cathy.
Curt: I know it was
very difficult for the family.
I had-- I had talked
to some of them over the years.
The whole thing
was very devastating.
But I think they all had hope.
Narrator: The investigation
stays cold
for another six
agonizing years.
Then in 2010,
the nebraska state patrol
decides to try a new tactic
to solve some
of its cold cases.
Casey: I was contacted
by nebraska state patrol
about a set of cold case
playing cards.
Each card had a cold case
on it of an unsolved murder,
and they would have details
of the case.
And they were distributed
into the state prison.
A lot of times
criminals will brag
when they're incarcerated
and say,
"oh, yeah, I did this
but I never got caught."
cathy's case
was on the two of spades.
And few months later,
we did get a-- a hit.
Jay: It fanned the flame
and got the investigation
rolling again.
[♪♪]
narrator: Twenty-one years
after cathy beard disappeared
from a bar in ord, nebraska,
there's a new lead.
It comes after police
distributed playing cards
featuring unsolved cases
to prison inmates.
Jay: That was August of 2010,
I got assigned
to follow up a lead
that had come in
as a result of an inmate
at the lancaster
county corrections,
who viewed a playing card
and he had heard
about cathy beard from ord.
Casey: A cellmate was
incarcerated in valley county
with john oldson.
Jay: John oldson
had made an admission to him
regarding being involved
with the death of cathy beard.
Narrator: To the detective's
frustration,
the jailhouse informant refuses
to testify in court.
But the tip refocuses
their attention on john oldson
and the deeper
detectives delve,
the more alarming
john's story becomes.
Casey: We found out
that john oldson went to prison
in 2003 for sticking
hypodermic needles
in his stepdaughter's
midsection area.
John oldson got out of prison
in 2005.
Michael: This was just
so egregious and so abusive,
so they knew he was dangerous.
Narrator: Investigators
see a connection
between john's stomach fetish
and the evidence found
with cathy's remains
two decades earlier.
Larry: The recovery of the--
the sweater
with a hole
in the abdominal area,
made a suspicion
that john oldson
was directly involved with this.
Because of his two arrests,
where he assaulted women
in the abdominal area.
Curt: We believe
that the cathy beard
having her sweater cut
and the marks on her bones
would indicate
that he was pursuing
a sexual fantasy.
Casey: We had evidence
the whole time,
the tip that we got
from the confidential informant
was the key.
Narrator: But there's a problem
with the investigator's
new theory of the murder.
John's claimed
to have seen cathy
get into a truck with two men
was confirmed
by another eyewitness
at the bar that night.
Jay: Jerome walkowiak
was the only person
that corroborated
what happened in that alley.
Narrator: Investigators
take another look
at jerome's story
and make a key discovery.
Jay: We had taken pictures
of the bar inside and out
and we compared them
with photographs of it in 1989.
Casey: I explained to him
there was no way he could see
out the back window.
And at that point,
he come clean
and said he did not see that.
It never happened.
He heard john talking
about a pickup in the bar
a couple of days later
and had repeated it
during the investigation.
Larry: I suspect that he was
just trying to get attention.
Narrator: John oldson's alibi
has just evaporated.
But the case against him
is more than 21 years old
and the evidence
is purely circumstantial.
Glenn: We never found anything
during the investigation.
Dna-wise or fiber
or any otherwise,
that would link john oldson
to the murder of cathy beard.
There simply wasn't anything.
Dna, unless it's protected,
ain't gonna stay there forever.
It's gonna wash away.
Narrator:
Seeking more information
about their suspect,
police tracked down
john's family.
His father died
several years earlier.
But his sister who
wasn't previously interviewed
has surprising new information
for them.
She describes
the lengths john went
to clean his pickup truck
the day
after cathy disappeared.
Curt: John had basically
cleaned that whole pickup
from stem to stern,
including removing the seats
and cleaning everything
within the pickup.
Larry: It's very possible
that john was cleaning up
to hide any type of evidence
of blood or injury.
Narrator: Then,
the investigation gets a jolt
when a new witness
comes forward,
suzanne pelster,
a former resident of ord
has a bone chilling story
to tell the police.
Jay: She overheard
a conversation
between john oldson
and his first wife.
They had an argument in the bar
and he told her
to shut up
or I'll do to you
what I did to cathy.
Larry: We brought up
the circumstantial evidence
that we had accumulated
over the years
to the county attorney.
Curt: There was a concern that
we didn't have enough evidence
and maybe forced into a trial
and lose it and therefore,
wouldn't be able
to prosecute him again.
Narrator: But prosecutors
conclude that the weight
of the circumstantial evidence
is enough.
As far as we know,
there was really nobody else
out in that alley.
John was the last person
to see her alive.
An arrest warrant was issued.
We had a swat team
of 15 to 20 members
swarmed in and--
and arrested john
as he was driving
down the street from his house.
[siren wailing]
jay: He acted like he had been
expecting it for some time.
Casey: I called mary kirby,
cathy's sister and I told her,
"hey, we got john in custody."
she just said, "thank you."
robert: My mom, she's relieved
that he finally got caught.
And she was glad
it was finally coming to an end
that they would bring justice
for cathy.
Narrator: A trial date
is set for March 2012,
but as prosecutors get ready,
john oldson's mother makes
a stunning announcement.
She claims the post office
has delivered
an envelope to her
with no return address
containing proof that her son
did not kill cathy beard.
Casey: What come out
of the envelope
was this long diary
stating that these people
that live north
of ericson, nebraska,
had this sex slave ranch
and they kept women
incarcerated there
and cathy beard was one
of the victims of this ranch.
This mysterious envelope
showed up
and we'd have to determine
if this was a true diary.
Glenn: It severely interfered
with our prosecution.
You just got to really wonder
if that diary is true.
Jay: This leads to a whole
another investigation.
[♪♪]
narrator: On the eve
of john oldson's murder trial,
an anonymous letter
containing diary pages
threatens to upend
the prosecution's case.
Its author claims
cathy beard was held captive
on a ranch 22 miles north
of her hometown
of ord, nebraska.
Jay: This so-called diary
indicates that this rancher,
mr. Backus and his wife,
had abducted three women
that they held as sex slaves
and eventually killed them.
One of which was allegedly
cathy beard.
These women were supposedly
kept in a cave
on the property.
Narrator: Police rush
to search the ranch property
and learn wetzel backus
died several years earlier.
But detectives interview
his widow jean,
who's now in her 80s.
Glenn:
They took her deposition.
She was a frail old lady
and you're looking at her
saying,
"yeah, I don't think so.
Not even in her youth."
jay: The pages of the diary
were handwritten
and the handwriting
was not that of jean backus.
Narrator: Yet the details
of ranch life are specific.
Jay: The pages of the diary
described the neighbors,
the terrain, and so on
in relationship
to where the backuses live.
A pretty good,
accurate description.
Narrator:
Whoever wrote the diary
had day to day knowledge
of life on the ranch.
Investigators asked jean
who might have a grudge
against her.
Jay: Jean threw out
doug olson's name.
Casey: Doug olson
worked for jean backus
at the backus ranch.
Narrator:
Jean tells the investigators
that doug believed
she cheated him
out of part of the ranch
he thought he would inherit
after wetzel backus' death.
That envelope is taken
to the state patrol crime lab
and they find doug olson's dna
on the flap of the envelope
and/or the stamp.
Narrator: Doug olson admits
trying to ruin
the backus' reputation
by tying them to the murder.
He's charged
with evidence tampering
as the case against john
moves forward.
Casey: We proved the diary
had nothing to do
with cathy beard.
Bottom line is cathy
walked out the back door
with john oldson
and never returned.
Narrator: In January 2013,
the trial of john oldson
is finally set to begin.
Robert: My mom wanted justice
for cathy.
She was glad it was finally
coming to an end.
Narrator: The investigation
could not determine
whether cathy beard
was sexually assaulted
because of the condition
of her remains.
But the prosecutors
paint a picture for the jury
of what they believe happened
on may 31st, 1989.
Larry: John olson said he was
getting a little bit aroused.
Glenn: When john oldson
and cathy beard
were in that bar,
he was gonna have sex with her
that night regardless.
Casey: There was a struggle.
He hit her in the head.
He threw her in the pickup.
Michael: John oldson said,
"she said, "no, no, john.
Please no, no."
well, I believe
those were her last words.
Casey: After murdering her,
he then took her
to the dumpsite.
He did dispose
of cathy's body,
he felt safe that
she would never be found
because party hill
was a remote area
and law enforcement
was not typically driving
by that location.
[♪♪]
narrator: After a week
and a half of testimony,
the jury leaves to deliberate.
It takes them just six hours
to decide john oldson's fate.
Glenn: The jury
found him guilty
of second degree murder.
Narrator: He's sentenced
to life in prison.
Casey: You could just tell
in the community that it was a--
a brick off
everybody's shoulders.
Um, to get justice for cathy
was what everybody wanted
and that was our goal
and that's what we got.
Michael: This woman
should still be alive today.
I'm confident that the family
and the community
felt justice was served.
Robert: Everybody's much
better with john in prison.
I think the world is better
with john in prison.
Cathy was always wanting
to help my mom.
They did about
everything together.
My mom would want cathy
to be remembered
as a good kind person.
[♪♪]